hello hello hello
okay this will start streaming soon
I can hear myself I think it's working
all right let's start recording
hello everyone and welcome to the ipfs
weekly call this call where we're able
to see the cool stuff that people are
doing in the ipfs community and today
we'll get right into it
I am Preston from Pierre eCos is going
to tell us about his project which is
Yui p2p storage so we'll learn about how
he's using IPS and we'll learn more
about this really interesting project so
we're just gonna get right into it and I
am Preston or dr. Kristin if you can
start sharing that'd be great thank you
good yes sweet
yeah okay Rio is your data secure sadly
for most people the answer is no so as a
portraitist and I'm going to introduce
you to ping us and tell you how we do
what we do and why but first let's start
with some motivation so what do we have
what am I trying to do what we're trying
to do with VMs I want to store my files
online but without Dropbox being able to
read them I want to be able to share my
photos so they could leave it without
facebook scene and I only bare-assed all
my files somewhere but not in a company
that could go bankrupt
dig a little deeper we can split our
desires into three main categories the
first one is security so we want a safe
login and also that means was a lot of
you mean in a decentralized system
strong crypto ideally post quantum you
wanna hide file metadata like names and
sizes and directory structures and we
want to be independent of the TLS
certificate authorities and DNS
thankfully ipfs makes the last two quite
easy the second main category is control
how we want to be self host of all again
I'd be fair solves most of the hard
problems there we're going to be able to
selectively share files now with
fine-grained access control we don't
know exploded that to anyone not even
the service provider
by that I mean the storage promote and
we'll treat you darkness so no need to
put in a phone number or even an email
address and finally if you want anyone
to actually use it it has to be
convenient and these days
convenience means a web interface so you
should be able to log in from any device
should have easy file syncing across
devices you should be able to publish
files to people who are not users of the
network now in an easy way
essentially it should be as convenient
as Dropbox or Facebook so
style control the overall architecture
we have here we have
ipfs as we know is that is a Content
address data store the mapping from
either TNS or para color to it is
basically mapping for public key to a
hash we use I've been s itself yet I
would like to and the only other thing
we have is essentially a PKI which
itself stores its data a might be FS and
I pianist and so I pay gloss server
talks to these these three main
components and a client give us client
talk to a pig or server and the only
only data is outside of ipfs are these
things called the follow request and
that's how we implement that the social
science things and we will see why
they're not you know so let's talk about
the structure so the global structure
you have a global file system and
essentially you get space under your
username in the global file system and
this is why we are partially why we
ensure unique user names so you have
everything has a well-defined path and
your file system has a tree of symmetric
keys now use tweet NaCl and we have
cryptographic links between these keys
in a structure called tree which
I'll talk more about in a second and so
you end up with a location plus a key is
cryptographic access token or a
capability and that allows you to do
something like read a file or read a
directory alright we explicitly done use
conversion encryption because that leads
the contents of your files and this is a
diagram of the cryptic structure we use
you can see we've got a directory on the
left a subdirectory in the middle and a
file on the right so each box is a
symmetric key and each arrow is is a
link from one key to another by link I
mean it's the target key encrypted with
a source key so if you have one of these
keys you can follow links from that key
around the diagram and drive all the
keys and so yeah so you can see a
directory has two keys a base key and a
parent key the base key controls access
to the children of that directory and
the parent key gives you access to two
things but one thing really is is the
path so it encrypts the metadata of that
directory which is its name mostly and
it also has a link to its parents parent
key so you can follow the the back links
back to figure out the the path of what
are we looking at files on the right we
also have two keys but don't files don't
have any children so the base key there
is the parent key and the other key is
the data key which is used to encrypt
the actual data and similarly the
metadata which has more things now it's
like file size and mime type and so on
they're all encrypted with the parent
key
now this this is the treat for
controlling read access so if I want to
just share a file with someone as well
as the location which we'll talk about
later you share this this parent key for
the file the base key
similarly fro directory and that gives
you access to the entire subtree of that
directory with just the one to one key
and location and the corresponding
structure to this or write access looks
a lot simpler so in this diagram the the
red boxes symmetric keys like in
previous one the green ones as you can
see there then a key pairs signing key
beds so basically every files and
directories look the same from this
point this the right-click trees point
of view so there's just one key for it
for each thing and that key has a link
to or encrypts the key pair for that
directory or file and so if someone has
the base right key for a thing that
means that they can then derive to keep
their and that key Perry's
is it's effectively the IPS keep their
which is used to sign modifications to
do two thing and so that means that they
can then modify it so we've taken the
view the right access implies read
access that the trees are actually
independent but you only ever share my
access with read access UNIX doesn't
technically do that but the exceptions
done don't really apply to two files
they're more for things like a service
that's listening and you can you can
write become read it kind of thing so
you think that makes sense so that's I'm
going to talk now about what what
actually happens when we're uploading
the file so we take the raw file we
split it into five megabytes chunks each
of those five Meg chunks is
independently encrypted and those are
then Charlotte in 240 frames we do a few
things
within each file make chunk of
like rounding it up so that you can't
even introduce the size of the file
modulo 5 mm so come over exactly I think
we rounded up two modules at least four
K maybe more
and then anyway so during upload these
these encrypted fragrancy but those know
it be first and then we have an
encrypted metadata the critter II blob
with local links to these fragment
hashes and each of those tree
things ends up in another data structure
called a champ so this is an IP LD
diagram so these links and mobile links
and you can see that you have chap nodes
and then eventually you get to a crick
tree node and that limb boy 2 if it's a
file file fragments and the way we've
done it is there's the serialization you
can't actually from the network spotted
me you can't figure out if something is
a directory or just a small file so the
serialization is identical for both so
that helps you to hide the the directory
structure even the Juke even just the
topology of a little learn the names so
how does sharing work so used a public
boxing key and to send a photo request
what I do is I create a directory for
that friend in my space and then I send
a read capability to this directory and
I encrypt it to the friends public
boxing team
and this thing gets sent and stored on
the on the friends storage server until
they next login and retrieve it and then
they delete now after they processed it
so what this means so that that sharing
mechanism currently that's co-chief fi
1:9
so i mean scared while sad files
currently wonderful to a large quantum
computer if someone had but we'll move
to our post quantum encryption scheme as
soon as a clear canada arise which is
progressing rapidly so now the next
calorie convenience so what does the
login mean in a decentralized system so
we've you've explained already that pick
up some capability based so we can't
stop someone from getting the ciphertext
of something what we can do is control
access to keys and so what we do is you
take your password and salt it with your
username and send it through a memory
hard hashing function called script and
it's tuned to take a second and that the
output of that is three things we get a
root symmetric key
assigning keeper which is your identity
key pair and a boxing key pair as well
and these are only ever stored in RAM
and poke cuts and no didn't a disk will
transmit so public links are basically
this is just a capability encoded in the
link itself this is a fairly standard
technique these days but you have the
location which has two parts to it
there's the the public writing key and
there's a label and which is the lookup
key in the champ and then there's the
actual decryption key and these are all
put appended after the hash in a URL and
so as we know that's not sent to the
server so a public link is actually more
like a secret link because the file is
still on actually exposed to the network
and you can share an individual file or
indeed an entire folder in its century
so now the next calorie security counter
login we cracked so brute force is
practically impossible with a good
password so it's obviously only as
secure as your password and we we put
some work into trying to help people
choose good passwords so to the point
where now we actually have a button
which will generate a password for you
in the browser but so with a password
that has 14 characters alphanumeric
characters about 284 possibilities or 10
or 25 so GPU can calculate about a
million script hashes per second
measured by litecoin users we actually
use harder parameters than the light
point but it's an estimate so that means
that one GPU cracking a single users
login would take about 10 to the 19
seconds or 300 billion years or if you
had 300 million GPUs it would still take
a thousand years and those 300 million
GPUs the costs just to buy them to learn
the electricity to run them would be 300
billion u.s. dollars so you can compare
that to various budgets of very consider
you your own threat model but at the
other end of the spectrum if you drop to
even I think something like an eight
character password that actually only
costs something like $10,000 to crack in
a year so password length matters and
what about quantum computer based
attacks so I've already mentioned that
shared files currently von go to the
quantum computer however it files that
aren't shared so just your own files
they are actually already safe and the
reason for this is to get from nothing
to reading your files there's only two
operations the script hashing and
there's symmetric encryption and neither
of those are vulnerable to a computer
now you get like a factor
to speed up and not an exponential
speed-up so that actually phone and then
the classic complaint that JavaScript
crypto is insecure now yes it is but it
depends on your threat model so if we're
targeting the casual user people who are
happy to log into a website from someone
they trust then that's fine they can
just download the JavaScript and log in
and do it for people who are who are
more paranoid and maybe don't trust even
DNS then they can download the source
themselves verify it compile it run it
locally and with the power of IP first
they don't need a DNS address or
anything like and so yeah this we can
cater to a range of threat mods
basically this is the idea it has to
build security we have reproducible
builds already both server and front-end
we only have eight JavaScript
dependencies all of them bended we self
host everything even fonts there's
nothing from it in third-party loaded in
the web UI that also helps if you want
to run it from localhost offline we have
our own deterministic replacement for
web pack and minifiers and most of the
client code is written in a type safe
language so Java and cross compiled to
JavaScript
during a time right let's see what we
can do right it's can people see this
hopefully all right so here we go but
this is the demo server I'm logged in
now as then when you see we've got a
bunch of buttons here hopefully they're
mostly self-explanatory this is the
social button where we can we can add
friends and sending a follow request and
so
there's a bunch of different files have
all the thumbnails the thumbnails are
actually encrypted as part of the
metadata for the files and every season
nothing now let's have a look we can do
so if we go in got some images here and
you can view them in browser or download
them if you like okay the some images we
have a very basic text viewer so there's
a recipe for lamb stew we can also play
videos this is a more impressive demo so
this is the collage as one so if we look
at the sizes since I want to happen 20
make so if we play that
Humphry Meg would take something like a
minute or so to download but this will
start playing as soon as it's downloaded
the first 5 min so you remember the 5
make chunking thing this meet this
allows us to start playing at least in
Chrome Firefox and Chrome and Safari iOS
I think it works we can stream at 5
million of time
you
bartering something okay at least in
crime we should be able to stream and
play how much every large video it could
be a bigger by big chamber you air
doesn't doesn't matter
Julio
I can demonstrate the the public link
thing
you
right so actually think about the
directory
not sure why that's there anyway so we
can create a public link to the media
directory I'll open that in a new tab
you can see there's a bunch of other
siblings here too the media directory if
you go to the public link you can see
the URL there we can see the things that
we've just been granted access to and if
we go down a directory then all the
owners are there wicked but if you go
back up just can't see any siblings and
that's that's not just you I think
that's obviously in force
cryptographically
should just work as it does normally and
there's a helpful sign up scene bottom
so cool yep
the rest of it's fairly self-explanatory
and slides right so yeah the other big
news is on Friday we launched our alpha
for bigges so if you want you can sign
up there's a limited number of spots on
it but yeah alpha dot pick us on net now
if you want to read some more we have a
little booklet book stop peeing or
settle or just check out our source and
get on if future plans we won't
implement messaging our signal inside
papers and an actual document editor
it's text editor and eventually a
sandbox and API for third-party apps to
run inside papers yeah any any questions
thank you very much if you have any
questions if you could put them in a
chat sharing it'd be great awesome
um do you mind if you let's see all
right excellent first of all thank you
very much for your presentation that's
wonderful
um personally I really like your super
clear diagrams of how you encrypted the
files I think I was very useful thank
you very much um and let us start with
questions so we don't have so much time
um Davi do you mind picking your most
pressing question and it will move on to
other so they can ask questions I'm also
finding my questions instead of later
every night following here goes for a
while some of these are more like update
questions
other curiosities let's start with a
vein and then I can can pick one of my
questions
alright cool thank you alright a Dean um
oh wow you have multiple questions as
well so I'll start with your first one
we don't mind the first question is have
you considered using D ID based
authentication schemes how do you evoke
a key so we take the view which is kind
of more information theoretic view once
someone has information you can't take
that information away from them so to to
revoke it so the keys for encryption
keys or they're all symmetric keys or
there's a signing kids against as well
basically you just rotate the keys if
you want to revoke access
so you're just rain encrypting the data
and reesh airing with anyone who wants
to you want to still have access to with
the new keys
awesome okay and does anyone else want
to ask a question before I get to a
Dean's a Dean second question
all right second question how do users
share with each other does this require
external messaging so it's a sharing is
internal and so once you you can send a
follower request to someone and that
then gives them a read capability to a
directory in your space forth for that
particular friend and when you share a
file with them all that does is attach a
capability to that file into that
directory which they already have read
access to
all right um before I go to one of these
questions I'd like to Oh Molly
you have a question well well I actually
wanted to pick one of David's questions
because I thought it was okay about
multiple writers so how do you do kind
of collaboration and other things like
that incur those so multiple writers
okay
it's whoever has has the key at the
moment if it could be literally the same
user on different machines because you
are I can s equivalent is it's basically
it's your storage server so it's not
decentralized in the sense of openness
when we move to openness will be a
backup for in case your machine
disappears but the core thing that I
think for now is still essential air
service we don't have fancy CID T's yeah
we would love to do more on those lines
in the long term but for now this this
works and so that what that means is
that's that's just that's your
centralization point for given writing
space and so if you try to concurrently
modify something one of them will
succeed in the long fail okay so those
will be the questions for the live talk
however this is what we're going to do
if anyone else has any questions when we
put up the video if you can put up the
questions in the comment section then
that will be another like alternative
way for you to get your answers and in
terms of next week or format is going to
be slightly different for the ipfs
weekly call oh I see Ali's face is
surprised um for the ipfs weekly call
we're going to have lightning talks so
you can sign up five minutes during a
call if you have a project that you
would like to present or you have
something that you're working on that
you want to get out there and give some
feedback this would be a perfect forum
for that and that is happening next week
next Monday thank you everyone and is
that a hand Duffy
yeah this is a good question is this
having you vomit or do we have a poor
request on github for the new forum yes
actually purchased it already so I think
yeah that's been merged and um we were
about to do it this week but we are
going to do it next weekend spend
something that's been in the works for
about a month so yeah it's there and
it's merged cool alright everyone I will
see you next week and have a group and
have a great week thank you everyone and
thank you I am think thanks